---
layout: post
title: Mausritter Bestiary 1 - Fellow Gentlebeasts
author: Tyler Farrington
date: 2020-04-21
tags: rules cairn
---

## Squirrel

3 hp, STR 10, DEX 12, WIL 8
Attacks: d6 bow
Climb as fast as they can run
***Wants*** *to defend their grove*

Squirrel tribes

1. Sweetleaf - Expert distillers who trade syrup and liqueur with neighboring communities
2. Hightower - Live in fortress-oaks. Sally forth to retrieve their yearly acorn harvest
3. The Watchers - Meticulously record observations of the forest floor in volumes of birchbark scrolls
4. Briarbough - Expert archers. Rain thorn arrows down on interlopers.
5. Green Ghosts - Use the year-round cover of evergreens to move unnoticed through their territory.
6. Nightwing - Can glide between trees. STR 8. Nocturnal.

## Mole

3 hp, STR 11, DEX 7, WIL 12
Attacks: d6 pick
Burrow as fast as they can run
***Wants*** *to produce fine works from the earth's bounty*

Mole excavation sites

1. Sand dunes to make exquisite glassware
2. Copper deposits to craft fine jewelry
3. Landfills to scavenge human-made goods
4. Tin mines to forge weapons and armor
5. Riverbanks to collect clay for pottery
6. Compost bins to gather loam for their mushroom farms

## Songbird

3 hp, STR 7, DEX 12, WIL 10
Attacks: d4 beak
Fly at 3x normal speed. Can speak with any creature.
***Wants*** *to gain prestige among the courts*

Songbird courts

1. Sparrow - Populous, gregarious. Politically influential. Nest near humans and trade human goods to other creatures.
2. Thrush - Have better relations with forest-dwellers than other songbirds due to spending more time on the ground.
3. Finch - Brightly colored, flamboyant. Duels are frequently used to defend one's honor.
4. Wren - Small, drab colors. Less involved in politics than other songbirds. 
5. Lark - Live on the fringes of the forest. Viewed with suspicion by other songbirds. 
6. Swallow - Nimble fliers. Warlike; wage a perpetual campaign against shrikes.