---
layout: post
title: 2024 Retrospective, 2025 Resolutions
author: Tyler Farrington
date: 2025-01-01
tags: retrospective
---

Looking back on 2024 resolutions:

1. ✅ **Write more.** Make at least 18 blog posts in 2024. 20 / 18
2. 🚫 **Read more.** Made almost no headway on this list, but did reread *Starfish* by Peter Watts and am deep into *The Wizards of Armageddon* by Fred Kaplan.
    1. ✅ *Absolution Gap* by Alastair Reynolds - completed
    2. *Three Hearts and Three Lions* by Poul Anderson
    3. *A Fire Upon the Deep* by Vernor Vinge
    4. 🚫 *Death's End* by Liu Cixin - DNF
    5. 🚧*A History of Civilizations* by Fernand Braudel
    6. 🚧*Skunk Works* by Ben. R. Rich
    7. *Command and Control* by Eric Schlosser
    8. *Eon* by Greg Bear
    9. *A Cruel Wind: A Chronicle of the Dread Empire* by Glen Cook
    10. *Quarantine* by Greg Egan
    11. *Destiny's Road* by Larry Niven
    12. *Dome* by Michael Reeves and Steve Perry
3. 🚫 **Play more.** Have at least 2 play sessions of each of these games:
    - ✅ [Grimdark Future: Firefight](https://www.onepagerules.com/games/grimdark-future-firefight) by OnePageRules. I've found a local group of friends who play this already, so it's pretty low-friction to get a game together.
    - ✅ [TONKs](https://28magcom.files.wordpress.com/2023/05/tonks.pdf): completed
    - 🚫 [My house rules for Cairn](https://underwaterowlbear.github.io/pages/rules.html). I've been tinkering with these for years, and need to just bite the bullet and try running a game for a handful of friends in town.
4. ✅**Visit grandparents.** Make at least 4 visits to each of my pairs of grandparents in 2024.
    - ✅ My paternal grandparents: 8 visits
    - ✅ My maternal grandparents: 7 visits
    - ✅ Wife's paternal grandparents: 5 visits
    - ✅ Wife's maternal grandparents: 4 visits
5. 🚫**Scroll less.** Not doing as well on this as I would like.

## Retrospective - Hobby

I met my goal of writing 18 blog posts in 2024, and of playing a few games of TONKs and GF:F. I also met up with Nate over at [Grinning Rat](https://grinningrat.substack.com/) publications and had some great conversations about our very particular corner-of-a-corner of the TTRPG hobby. I went to a renaissance faire. Made a friend at work who does some bladesmithing and made a knife for myself and a dagger for my wife. I also tracked down some rare books for him, which were exchanged for an experimental sword (a replica Mainz pattern gladius with a stainless/80CRV2 *san mai* blade and Mircarta hilt), which I then made a leather baldric for.

## Retrospective - Home

My wife celebrated her 30th birthday. My father-in-law celebrated his 60th. Lost touch with another friend. We adopted a third cat - who looks just like a cat I had as a child (lynx point Siamese). He is slowly progressing with getting along with the other cats. We rescued him in the spring, and he has just this week taken a few naps while *barely* touching one of our other cats. We saw the solar eclipse in April. A very good friend of ours (who we also saw the 2017 eclipse with in Missouri!) came into town and we drove to Ohio to see it. It was even better than the 2017 one and I love that we have preserved this tradition with her. My great-aunt passed away (she was 97) after about 4 years of various health problems. First, she got in a nasty car accident that resulted in an above-the-knee amputation. This is when she was 93 - yet she still showed up all the 80 years olds at PT enough that she got fitted for a fancy computerized prosthetic leg. Then, congestive heart failure slowly progressed over the last year or so and she passed at home. During these 4 years or so, she was staying in town with my aunt and uncle and we got to see much more of her at family gatherings than we had in the past, which I am grateful for. I got to know her much better in this time. I also attended my cousin's wedding in West Virginia around Christmastime this week.

My mom completed her renovations and my grandparents moved in with her around Labor Day. They are all settled and their old house is sold. My grandma's vascular dementia is progressing - we are noticing that she will exaggerate stories, both from her childhood and from more recent events. Her stories usually have a kernel of truth to them, but she will blow certain aspects out of proportion. We are still working out how to respond to this - lately we've been gently disagreeing with her, and then highlighting another aspect of the story or person that we know were true but aren't as sensationalized. She is getting more confused, particularly at night. My grandpa is getting more settled into his routine in his new town (though his morning coffee and donut run has been disrupted by the local McDonald's closing). For Christmas I got him set up with a laptop. He is very particular about privacy and online presence and desired a laptop for news, games, YouTube, etc, but adamantly refused to give Apple or Microsoft any of his information. I knew that it was possible to get a Windows or Apple laptop and avoid doing that, but they have made the process of setting up local accounts pretty counter-intuitive lately. So I got a Debian 12 install set up on an old Thinkpad with a bare minimum XFCE DE. He was overjoyed and has been shopping, looking up local news, finding old shows from his childhood on YouTube, etc. 

## Retrospective - Work

I am feeling more comfortable in my supervisor role at work. I have a talented team of younger engineers to work with and am seeing some development. My very last individual contributor work happened at the very start of the year in February when I migrated my department's software version control system from a single monolithic SVN repo set up in the aughties (😱), to a more modern setup hosted on the company's GitLab server. We moved into our new office building in August, which has been nice. I'll be back in the office tomorrow to get back in to the work routine.

## Resolutions for 2025

1. **Write more.** Make at least 18 blog posts in 2025. Let's keep up the trend.
2. **Read more.** Read at least 6 books in 2025. I may have more success here if I leave the exact books open-ended.
3. **Visit grandparents.** Visit my grandparents at leas 8 times, and my wife's grandparents at least 4 times.
